add the secret of React (#18)
navarroaxel/navarroaxel.github.io: blog/the-big-secret-of-react.md

# The big secret of React

> Did you wonder how React compares the `deps` array used by the hooks in every render? Let's check the magic that decides when run the `useEffect` hook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have you thought about how React compares the `deps` array used by the hooks in every render? Let's check the magic that decides when to run the `useEffect` hook.
```

## Introduction

> As a curious developer, I was wondering how React checks the array of dependencies, called `deps`, that I pass to the `useEffect`, `useCallback` and `useMemo` hooks. I didn't find the answer anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a curious developer, I was wondering how React checks the dependencies array -called `deps`- that is passed to the `useEffect`, `useCallback` and `useMemo` hooks. I didn't find the answer anywhere.
```

Reviewer: podrias reemplazar wondering con algun sinonimo cosa de no repetir verbos
ej `think`

```javascript
useEffect(() => {

>   console.log('Hook was executed');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  console.log('someValue has changed:', someValue);
```

Reviewer: creo que queda mas claro. El texto puede mejorar, pero no estaria mal mostrarlo

}, [someValue]);
```

> So, my unique option was to check the React's code itself to find the magic, and I found more than I expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, my only option was to check the React's code itself to find the magic, and I found more than I expected.
```

## The comparison

> React don't use `==` or `===` operators, it uses the [`Object.is()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/is) method. This method provides the [`SameValue` algorithm](https://262.ecma-international.org/5.1/#sec-9.12) since ES2015.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React doesn't use `==` or `===` operators, it uses the [`Object.is()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/is) method. This method provides the [`SameValue` algorithm](https://262.ecma-international.org/5.1/#sec-9.12) since ES2015.
```

> We all knew the difference between Abstract Equality Comparison (`==`) and Strict Equality Comparison (`===`), but what comes with this new comparison?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We all know the difference between Abstract Equality Comparison (`==`) and Strict Equality Comparison (`===`), but what comes with this new comparison?
```

> 💡 You can quickly check the difference between these equality comparisons in [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Equality_comparisons_and_sameness#a_model_for_understanding_equality_comparisons).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
💡 You can quickly check the differences between these equality algorithms in [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Equality_comparisons_and_sameness#a_model_for_understanding_equality_comparisons).
```

Reviewer: `differences` between `comparisons` me suena raro 🤔 . se podria reemplazar `comparisons`por alguna otra palabra

> We can affirm that the difference between `===` and `Object.is` are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can affirm that the differences between `===` and `Object.is` are:
```

> 1. `+0`, `-0` and `0` are the same value for `===`, but different for `Object.is`. «And that's a point to `is` for being that's mathematically correct.» ✅

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `+0`, `-0` and `0` result in the same value for `===`, but different for `Object.is`. «And that's a point to `is` for being mathematically correct.» ✅
```

2. `NaN === NaN` is `false` for `===` 😒, but `true` for the SameValue algorithm. «Another point to `Object.is`.»

> I think now it's clear why React chose a little-known comparison method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I think now it's clearer why React choses a little-known comparison method.
```

## Show me the code

If you're a developer, I guess you want to see where is the code for `Object.is` 😁. The answer is in a function called `areHookInputsEqual` in the `ReactFiberHooks.new.js` file: <https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/v18.1.0/packages/react-reconciler/src/ReactFiberHooks.new.js#L323>.

> 💡 I used the latest tag because the code can change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
💡 I used the latest tag because the code changes continuosly.
```

> It's cool to see how this check is completely ignored if you're in a hot reload process, and how the checks for the programmer are removed in the `production` build of React.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's cool to see how this check is completely ignored if you're in a hot reload process, and how the programmer checks are removed in the `production` build of React.
```

## Conclusion

> IMO the most important issue here is that React doesn't make a deep comparison between objects, it only checks if it's the same object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMO the most important issue here is that React doesn't make a deep comparison between objects, it only checks if they're the same object.
```

> 💡 If you don't know what this means check this page of Redux about [the benefits of immutability](https://redux.js.org/faq/immutable-data#what-are-the-benefits-of-immutability).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
💡 If you don't know what this means check this Redux page about [the benefits of immutability](https://redux.js.org/faq/immutable-data#what-are-the-benefits-of-immutability).
```
